SAILORS: ♪ Your love
is like a shadow on me ♪
♪ All of the time ♪
♪ I don't know what to do ♪
♪ And I'm always in the dark ♪
♪ We're living in a powder keg
and giving off sparks ♪
♪ I really need you tonight ♪
♪ Forever's gonna start
tonight ♪
♪ Forever's gonna
start tonight ♪
♪ Once upon a time,
I was falling in love ♪
♪ Now I'm only
falling apart... ♪
♪ A total eclipse
of the heart. ♪
(lively chatter)
Shogo?
(waves crashing)
♪ ♪
Shogo?
Shogo!
♪ ♪
Yes, Captain, I'm arriving now.
I'm fully aware of
how sensitive it...
Right.
Okay. As soon
as I know anything.
(quiet chatter)
Fun morning?
PACOM reminding me this
is a delicate situation
that requires a thoughtful
resolution.
Fourth call this morning, and
I'm barely at the crime scene.
Oh, I guess we won't
phone it in, then.
So, who's our victim?
Victim is Shogo Oda.
He's an Isso
with the Japan Maritime
Self-Defense Force.
Isso? Petty Officer?
Oh, you know
your Japanese ranks.
Worked a couple cases out
of the Yokosuka Field Office.
COD appears to be
multiple stab wounds.
Wallet and phone's missing.
It's pretty vicious
for a mugging, though.
HPD find any similar MOs?
No. Nothing like this.
Whoever did it got up
close and personal.
Has he had any problems
since he's been here?
Not sure. Kai's inside
talking to his buddies.
They're all in town this week
for some field training
exercise.
Operation Iron Cloud.
Computer-based drills focused
on ballistic missile defense.
Think this could be connected?
We need to find out.
Give Commander Chase
a heads-up.
Tell her the body's
on the way.
Yeah, I'll make sure the autopsy
moves to the top of her list.
(dance music playing
over headphones)
(door lock beeps)
(clears throat)
Quick:
Favorite go-to karaoke song?
Ah, none.
I don't believe in karaoke.
It isn't something
to believe in or not.
It-it just exists,
like science.
I skipped my sister's
bachelorette party
because they went
to a karaoke club.
Wow. Nerves?
Principle.
I don't like singing.
I'm not good at it.
And I-I refuse to be
peer-pressured.
Well, i-it's not about
being good or not.
It's about having fun
and-and letting go, you know?
(hums)
Yeah,
one man's letting go is
another woman's
embarrassing public spectacle.
Were you able to find
any information on our victim?
Yeah, well, I'm working on it.
His, uh, cell phone
and personnel records
were stored in Japan,
so my normal databases
aren't any use.
Which also eliminates
social media.
Uh, not entirely.
I can't access Shogo's accounts
without permission from
the Japanese companies, but...
I ran a geotag search
on the karaoke bar,
and I got a lot of hits.
All the photos
his friends posted.
Yeah, and Shogo's
in several of them.
See?
He never sang, either.
Yeah, and look what happened
to him.
Sorry.
He seems distracted
by his phone.
Maybe he was texting
with someone?
Yeah, looks like it.
There was no phone
with his body.
Could you get access
to those text messages?
Not until we get some
cooperation from the Japanese.
(quiet chatter)
We've got company.
JESSE:
That the Japanese commander?
And everyone determined
to keep him happy.
Captain Milius.
Allow me to introduce
Special Agent in
Charge Jane Tennant.
She'll be handling
the investigation.
Nisa Tanaka,
allow me to express
my deepest condolences
for your loss.
Thank you.
This has been devastating
for us.
Isso Oda was much respected.
We're doing everything we can
to find out who did this.
But we could use your help.
Of course.
Whatever you require.
The first thing is that
we need to speak to the men
who were there last night.
We'll make them available
immediately.
(speaking Japanese)
I need a word. It's important.
Can you settle everyone
in the conference room?
I'll be right in.
Gentlemen.
I cannot stress enough
how delicate this is.
So I've been told.
A lot.
Secretary of the Navy
called me himself.
Wants me to stay on top
of the situation.
Solving homicides is suddenly
under your purview?
I'm just here to help
however I can.
The thing is...
...this isn't the first murder
associated with Iron Cloud.
Operation Iron Cloud
changes locations each year.
Last year,
exercises were set in Okinawa.
Someone was killed?
A Japanese woman
named Yuki Sawa.
She was a translator
at the JMSDF.
You think the two cases
are connected?
(scoffs) I know they are.
The sailor killed last night
was Yuki Sawa's boyfriend.
And Yuki was murdered
in the exact same manner--
stabbed in the heart.
Did the Okinawa investigation
come up with any suspects?
Only one:
Abby Nelson,
an American working
for a Navy contractor
called Translation Nexus.
Nelson was living in Okinawa
with Yuki at the time,
but guess where
she's living now.
KAI:
Honolulu.
She's been there
since she left Japan.
If Nelson was
such a good suspect,
why isn't she behind bars?
Didn't have enough evidence
to convict.
Did they have motive?
Stabbing someone like that
is intense.
I wouldn't call it intense.
I'd call it efficient.
With a sharp blade
and enough velocity,
you don't need much force
to pierce clothes,
skin and organ tissue.
Massive internal damage
with a minimum of fuss.
Mr. Oda's COD was traumatic
injury to the thoracic aorta.
Strikes were deep and swift,
no evidence of hesitation.
I'm not seeing
any defensive wounds.
No. I don't think
he ever saw it coming.
Means the killer got close
without arousing suspicion.
Could a woman do this?
I think a woman
could do anything.
Right. Me, too.
This is a gender-neutral
killing.
Trace indicates the weapon:
Damascus stainless steel.
Too common to be much help.
Foreign DNA?
No, Special Agent.
No foreign DNA
or fingerprints.
No confession secreted
in the body.
His aura is green,
but I don't put that
in the report.
Only other detail...
your victim's last meal was
Japanese noodles.
What kind?
Hoto.
Does it matter?
Depends how much
you value precision.
In forensic medicine,
we value it above all else.
In Japanese cooking,
a chef often holds
his or her noodle recipe
to the same standard.
Yeah. The broth can be
incredibly specific,
not just to the region but
to the individual restaurant.
So, we-we figure out
where he ate,
we can track his movements.
Bon appétit.
As part of the training
exercise in Japan,
Yuki invited Nelson to stay
with her for a few weeks.
ERNIE:
Best way to improve
language skills is
to immerse yourself
in the culture.
Probably works better if you
don't stab your host to death.
Sorry. Don't mind me.
He's helping.
Why did the investigation
focus on Nelson?
She was in the apartment
when Yuki was killed.
Said she was asleep
and didn't hear anything
until she found the body
in the morning.
JESSE:
She didn't call the police
until almost an hour later.
Why the delay?
Cops figure she was
getting rid of evidence.
Nelson insisted
she was just in shock.
I heard her story kept changing.
Yeah. Local investigators
were convinced she did it.
They were trying to gather
enough evidence to charge her.
Yeah, well, lots of outrage and
finger-pointing by the locals.
Got even worse for a few weeks
after Nelson fled the country.
Yeah.
We heard American authorities
just put her on a plane
in the middle of the night.
You know who gave that order?
That seems to be
something of a mystery.
TENNANT:
We should find out.
Maybe you could look into that?
I'm on it.
We need to talk to Abby Nelson.
We know her location?
HPD checked her work and
her apartment. No sign of her.
Think she's running?
I got 20 bucks says "no."
Any takers?
Looking for me?
ABBY:
I can't believe this
is happening again.
You don't seem that shocked.
Isn't an abnormal reaction
the definition of shock?
Are you sure you wouldn't prefer
to have an attorney present?
I have nothing to hide.
I didn't kill anyone.
Not here and not in Okinawa.
Duffel bag you were carrying
looked like you packed
for a long trip.
And yet I came
directly to you.
I'll admit my first instinct
was to take off.
But then I realized,
I haven't done anything wrong.
So you wouldn't mind telling us
where you were last night,
around midnight?
In my apartment, sleeping.
Same alibi you gave
when Yuki Sawa was murdered.
Sleeping?
Yes. I do it every night.
Look, this has been
hard on me.
I had a great job.
I got to travel all over.
But after what happened
in Japan,
they have me translating manuals
in a basement.
Does sound hard.
Though maybe not as hard
as what happened
to the two people
who were murdered.
Yuki's death was
very upsetting for me.
Of course.
Were you close?
We were friends.
What about Yuki's boyfriend?
Shogo Oda?
You know him well?
A little.
He seemed nice.
JESSE:
When was the last time
you saw him?
Last year in Okinawa.
A few days
before Yuki was killed.
I actually felt bad for him.
Because his girlfriend
was murdered.
Because she was having
an affair.
She was seeing another man?
She wouldn't admit it,
but I knew.
I overheard them once.
Can you describe this man?
I never actually saw him,
but I think she was
scared of him.
Do you think he might
be responsible
for killing Yuki and Shogo?
(door closes)
Every single word
out of her mouth's a lie.
What makes you think that?
Instinct.
She wants us to believe she's
like Amanda Knox, you know,
an innocent caught up
in a bad situation.
But every answer
feels calculated.
Nothing she's offered can be
easily disproven.
So let's go at her harder.
Wear her down
till she makes a mistake.
Right now, we don't have
much leverage.
But Nelson's connection to both
these cases should be enough
to get warrants for
her home and office.
So let's start there, see if
we find anything we can use.
Building manager really
doesn't like Nelson.
Said the power went out once,
and she yelled at him so
much, it made him cry.
Mm, that's harsh.
You know,
I bet she's one of
those weird people
who hates karaoke.
Hilarious.
(chuckles)
You know Ernie's determined
to get you up on a stage,
right?
Never gonna happen.
♪ ♪
Federal agents!
LUCY:
Hands up!
Please.
My credentials are
in my coat pocket.
May I?
No, we got it.
Okinawa Prefectural Police.
Inspector Kento Mori.
What are you doing here?
Trying to catch a killer.
TENNANT:
You work for the Criminal
Investigations Department?
KENTO:
Yes.
I led the investigation
into Yuki Sawa's murder.
You're a long way from home.
I promised Yuki's family
I would bring her killer
to justice.
It doesn't matter
if that's here or in Japan.
Doesn't excuse breaking
and entering.
My apologies.
I should have come to you first.
Your investigation zeroed in
on Abby Nelson very quickly.
Only after we found
inconsistencies in her story.
She admitted she discovered Yuki
an hour before calling
the authorities.
We learned she had, in fact,
had breakfast in the room
next to Yuki's body.
This woman found her roommate
murdered and then ate breakfast?
She claimed she was in a daze.
Didn't know what she was doing.
Nelson said Yuki was having
an affair with another man.
Did you look into him?
She says a lot of things.
Most are untrue.
There was no evidence
that any such man existed.
So, why kill Shogo Oda now?
Seems like she'd basically
gotten away with it.
Because Shogo rejected her.
He was on assignment
at the time of Yuki's murder.
But when he returned,
he told me Abby had been...
inappropriate.
She came onto him?
But he refused.
He never imagined
Abby was dangerous.
So, you think she was jealous.
Killed Yuki to get her
out of the way.
And given time
I would have proven it.
But your government interfered
and slipped her out
of the country.
Special Agent Tennant,
I know I overstepped.
My experience with
American authorities has been...
disappointing.
But I would like to help
with this investigation.
I'm sure that...
No, absolutely not.
We have to ensure this
investigation remains impartial.
Of course, that's
Agent Tennant's call.
Unfortunately, there are a lot
of eyes on this case, Inspector.
But thank you for this.
And I promise,
I will let you know
if we make any progress.
(steps departing)
(door opens)
I know, I know.
This is my investigation,
Captain.
You're a guest.
Sorry, habit.
I'm used to giving orders.
You really don't need to be here
all the time.
I'll call if there's
new information.
That's your subtle way
of getting rid of me?
I wasn't actually going
for subtle.
I don't suppose you know
who gave the order
to get Abby Nelson
out of Japan last year?
(sighs) Not exactly.
Order came from
the State Department,
but nobody's
taking responsibility.
I'm not surprised.
It was a terrible decision.
I imagine they thought they were
avoiding a diplomatic crisis.
By letting a suspected killer
walk free?
(phone vibrating)
Medical examiner may have
something.
We got a lead?
We did.
Great.
What is it?
Noodles.
KAI:
Dango-jiru.
It's a noodle soup
from Oita, Japan.
How do you know this is
where Shogo Oda ate it?
Oh, Dango-jiru is
a regional specialty.
Only a couple places make it
on the island,
but this one's best.
Lot of shin-issei here.
Shin-issei?
First-generation immigrants.
Yeah. You ever tried
any, like, truly,
truly authentic
Japanese food?
Do sake bombs count?
The Japanese don't do them,
and it's, uh...
it's not food,
so no.
(chuckles)
Sumimasen.
(speaking Japanese)
Do you recognize this man?
He would've been in, like,
a couple of days ago.
Ah...
Hai, the soldier.
From Oita,
where I was born.
Said my food tasted
like home.
Was he alone?
No, with-with a woman.
Gaijin.
Uh...
Is this her?
Yeah.
Not very nice.
She make him upset.
Could you, uh, hear
what they were talking about?
No.
But he lost his appetite
after she walked away.
He left half his lunch behind.
Thank you.
Welcome.
Nelson said she hadn't seen
Shogo Oda since last year.
Yeah. Can't wait to hear how
she talks her way out of this.
♪ ♪
And you maintain
you had nothing to do
with Yuki Sawa's death?
No.
I didn't kill her
or Shogo Oda.
Decided to do
a polygraph, huh?
Yeah.
But so far, she's showing
no indications of deception.
Probably why she agreed to it.
Think we'll get better results
than just going at her?
We need to catch her in a lie.
Did you ever make advances
of a sexual nature to Shogo?
No.
But I'm pretty sure
he was in love with me.
According to this,
she's telling the truth.
But Shogo told the inspector
that Abby came onto him.
Ask her about meeting Shogo
the other day.
KAI:
Ms. Nelson,
when was the last time
you saw Shogo Oda?
Last year, like I told you.
But we have a witness
who states you met Shogo
two days ago.
Got her.
Yeah, I guess I did.
But you should also know
that Shogo told me
he believes I'm innocent.
I don't get it.
There's no difference
in her reading
whether she's telling the truth
or the lie.
Because she doesn't care
about the truth.
What matters most to Abby is
looking out for herself.
She's superficially charming
but lies without compunction.
Believes everyone adores her,
but doesn't display signs
of empathy or remorse.
So, did she kill them or not?
I don't know.
So we got nothing.
Not exactly.
Can't say if she's
a murderer,
but I think she might
very well be a psychopath.
Medically speaking,
there's no actual diagnosis
for psychopath.
(sputters)
I feel like I locked up
plenty of them in D.C.
Psychiatrists label it
antisocial
personality disorder.
You can have
psychopathic traits,
like compulsive lying or being
unable to connect emotionally,
but those traits exist
along a spectrum.
Is violence on that spectrum?
Many do have violent impulses.
But some are able to
successfully control them.
Having psychopathic traits
doesn't make someone a murderer.
So, you said psychopaths have
a hard time
connecting emotionally,
right?
So does it make sense
Nelson killed Yuki
'cause she was jealous?
I mean, it does
if she's cold-blooded
and wanted Yuki's
boyfriend for herself.
I'm still not sure why
Inspector Mori was convinced
that jealousy was the motive.
Nothing in his interview
with Abby indicated that.
You think he knows more
than he's telling us?
I do.
Want me to talk to him?
Sure. Cop to cop might work.
So, we just let her go?
Not quite yet.
♪ ♪
You seem relaxed.
A lot of people are scared
of polygraphs.
I don't really do fear.
I see that.
I imagine it's probably
even hard
for you to comprehend
on some level.
It can be.
Other emotions, too?
Joy? Love?
You sound like my old shrink.
Is this an interrogation
or a session?
I just want to understand.
You're right.
I don't experience love or joy
like most people.
But that's not always
such a bad thing.
I also don't struggle that much
with pain and grief.
Heartbreak?
I hear people
talk about it.
I see it in the movies.
But caring that much
just seems exhausting.
And I'm fine with that.
I've learned to
live with it.
You must have to wear
a lot of masks
just to get through a day.
Don't you?
Sometimes.
It comes with the job.
I'm not stupid.
I know you're just trying
to get me to talk
by being sympathetic
or something.
I do need you
to be honest with me.
You lied the last time we spoke
about seeing Shogo.
I knew you'd just suspect me
like the cops did before.
If you're innocent,
catching the killer is
in your best interest.
What did Shogo say to you?
Am I under arrest?
Abby.
Because otherwise,
I'm free to go, right?
For now.
The tea was a nice touch.
This chef is shin-issei.
He moved from Japan
a couple years ago.
Shin-issei?
You know much about
Japanese culture.
I love it.
We should order
fugu, then.
Fugu?
Pufferfish, a delicacy.
Though the toxin it contains
can poison and kill
if not prepared correctly.
Uh, two of
your finest fugu,
my friend.
Think you've been
holding out on us.
I gave you our murder file.
But both of us know
that's not everything.
I mean, no seasoned cop lays
all their cards
on the table up front.
It eats away at you,
doesn't it?
(smacks lips)
Not being able to bring justice
for Yuki Sawa and her family?
I haven't given up.
Yeah, I got my own case
like that.
Jessica Gains.
She was a senior at
Georgetown University.
Strangled a week
before her graduation.
Found DNA
but didn't get a match.
I ask the lab to run it
once a year.
Hope to find a hit.
Americans stole Yuki's
killer before.
Why should I trust you?
Because we want the same thing.
Do we?
Trust.
We held this back
from the media.
It belongs to Abby Nelson.
And it's why I know
she killed Yuki Sawa.
JESSE:
I mean, Nelson wasn't just
jealous of Yuki.
She was obsessed with her.
She wrote down everywhere
they went together,
everybody Yuki talked to.
Even small things,
like what she ate,
what movie she was watching.
Anything on the man
she was supposedly
having an affair with?
Not that I can find.
Yeah, which probably means
Abby made him up.
Not necessarily.
I mean, if she thought
this guy was dangerous,
she would've mentioned him
somewhere.
Well, we can't know that
because we don't know
why Abby kept the journal
in the first place.
JESSE:
Well, like Inspector Mori said,
because she was jealous.
But just because you guys
might consider it
important enough to include,
doesn't mean Abby would.
That's, uh... (chuckles)
It's very neurotypical thinking.
TENNANT:
Ernie's right.
We know that Abby thinks
differently than most people.
Do we have access
to Yuki's social media yet?
Yeah.
The Japanese government
came through, got us permission.
Okay, let's compare
these dates and times
in this journal to Yuki's posts.
See if we can find any
connections to the mystery man.
I'll help.
I love a good Insta-snoop.
MILIUS:
Well...
finally made some headway.
We've been making
some progress ourselves.
(sighs) Saved you a seat,
Captain.
Make yourself at home.
Appreciate that, Boone.
But I think we'll be
taking a field trip.
I figured out who wanted
Abby Nelson out of Japan.
Did the State Department
finally come clean?
They were just doing
what they were asked.
The request to remove her
actually came
from the Japanese themselves.
She was accused of killing
one of their own citizens.
Why would they want her
sent away?
Excellent question.
Why don't we go ask them?
(indistinct chatter)
Commander.
You have news?
Actually,
we have questions.
We're in the middle
of a simulation.
I will make my men available
as soon as we're done.
Our question is for you.
What do you need?
Your government had Abby Nelson
removed from Japan
in the middle of
a murder investigation.
We'd like to know why.
I'm sorry.
I know nothing about this.
Commander, two members of
your unit have been killed.
We can't help if we don't have
all the information.
People I answer to wanted
the American woman gone.
The publicity
around the murder was
on the verge of exploding,
possibly harming
the cooperation between
our two countries irreversibly.
Wasn't the publicity worse
when she got away with it?
For a short time,
but then it blew over,
as they knew it would.
It would not have been necessary
if the investigation had
not been so badly mishandled.
You think the Okinawa
detectives made mistakes?
They failed Yuki, and now
Shogo has paid the price.
I'm ashamed of the choices
my countrymen made.
We should never have
allowed her to leave.
(door lock beeps)
You two get anything useful
off Yuki's social media?
No sign of her mystery
boyfriend.
But we did find something else.
Yes.
Yuki's feeds are mostly filled
with friends
from her unit.
But look at Abby's posts
from last year
around the time of the murder.
TENNANT:
They're almost identical.
And that's no accident.
LUCY:
Abby was imitating her.
Which is also what
her journal was really for.
She wasn't jealous of Yuki.
She was studying her.
Trying to figure out how to
fit in and appear more normal.
Well, though normal's
highly overrated.
It seems like
they got along well.
And if Abby wasn't
jealous of Yuki,
it pretty much
eliminates motive.
And the truth is,
no one has found
any real evidence against her,
either here or in Okinawa.
What if she's actually innocent?
Well, Inspector Mori's team
focused on Abby so early,
they didn't even look
at other suspects.
But if Abby didn't commit
either murder, who did?
(entry bells jingle)
From the dent in that bottle,
I'm guessing you got my message.
You believe Abby Nelson
is innocent?
Still just a theory,
but...
yeah, we think
it's pretty likely.
Whiskey, rocks. Thanks.
I was so sure Nelson was guilty.
Menboku mo nai.
I've lost face.
Let down my country,
Yuki's family, myself.
Look, I'm...
not actually that knowledgeable
about Japanese culture.
Thank you.
Here you go.
But isn't there a saying?
Something about falling
down seven times,
and getting up eight?
Come work with us.
Help us figure out
who the suspects should've been.
Special Agent Tennant
will not allow it.
She sent me.
We got to start
at the beginning,
and you know your case
better than anyone.
♪ ♪
Otsukaresama.
I'm just gonna assume
that's yes.
♪ ♪
All right.
(sighs)
(sputters)
(Kai gasps)
Look who's rolling in.
(groans)
Ah, bro,
it was a long night.
Taking care of
international relations.
So I heard.
Hey, I got aspirin in
my top drawer if you need it.
No, I'm good.
But Inspector Mori
might need some.
That dude can
put away shochu, man.
No, I think he's fine.
(quiet chatter)
He's been here
an hour already.
(mutters quietly)
I'm still not convinced Abby
Nelson is not the killer.
But we're being open-minded,
right?
Yes.
Good morning.
Morning.
Yuki and Shogo were
in the same unit.
Not that many other friends.
LUCY:
All of those men were
in Okinawa last year
and are here now.
Makes them the most
likely suspects.
Did Yuki have any problems
with anyone from her unit?
Not that we discovered.
Well, whoever it was,
she trusted them enough
to let them into her apartment.
It's been a year since Yuki's
murder. Why kill Shogo?
Maybe Abby was telling
the truth about what he said.
That he believed
she was innocent.
And Shogo was getting
too close to identifying
the real killer?
LUCY:
Well, if it's
one of these guys,
we don't have that much time
to figure it out.
Iron Cloud wraps up tomorrow.
The whole unit will be
on a plane home
right after the farewell party.
Let's go over all
their statements again.
(phone vibrates)
Chase just got the
autopsy photos from Okinawa.
She's got questions
for you, Inspector.
Okay.
I'll take him.
Thanks.
Yeah.
Try not to look
quite so chipper.
Were you able to determine
whether the victim was
sitting or standing?
According to our forensics,
standing.
That makes depth and placement
of the wounds extremely similar.
So, same killer?
Despite the whispers
in the hallways,
I'm not actually a psychic.
"Similar" is as far
as I can go.
This is my fault.
Hey, you know that's not true.
My own people believe I failed
at the job I was
entrusted with.
Hey, you didn't fail.
You just haven't succeeded yet.
I've seen this before.
What is this?
A military award.
These things were all found
with Shogo Oda?
Yes.
They'll be returned to his
family as soon as possible.
This commemorates
Operation Kagemusha.
But that was over ten years ago.
Shogo's too young
to have participated.
Wait. I know where I saw this.
Yeah. There.
Nisa Tanaka.
Why would Shogo have
his medal?
Not sure,
but I know who we should ask.
(door opens)
Abby. Thanks so much
for coming back.
This is getting tiresome.
I already told you
everything I know.
I'm hoping that's not true.
What is he doing here?
Abby, take a breath.
Have a seat.
Please.
(exhales shakily)
I know that was hard.
Inspector Mori has
something he wants to say.
Nelson-san...
(speaking Japanese)
I have done you
a great disservice.
(speaking Japanese)
What is this?
Some kind of trick?
No tricks.
We don't believe you killed
Yuki Sawa or Shogo Oda.
I told you I didn't.
We need to know
what Shogo said to you
when you met him
at the noodle place.
Did he know who
Yuki's killer was?
No, but he thought
it was someone
in the Japanese military.
Why did he think that?
Last month, he received
a box from Yuki's parents.
Personal items
they thought belonged to him.
He found some kind
of medal inside.
But it wasn't his.
Shogo thought
it might belong to
whoever killed Yuki.
We believe it belonged
to this man.
That's it.
That's the medal
that Shogo showed me.
Did this guy kill
Yuki and Shogo?
We think it's possible.
But just like in Japan,
there's no hard evidence.
So, what happens now?
You can't just let him
get away with it.
We're hoping he doesn't.
Not if you agree
to help us.
Me?
There's a chance
we can take him down.
But it's risky.
And it all depends on you.
(indistinct chatter)
(Tennant sighs)
Tanaka.
Eleven o'clock.
You think Abby
can pull this off?
TENNANT:
Let's hope so.
She's the only person Tanaka
might actually believe.
If she can't get
a confession out of him,
he's on a plane
out of here.
We close?
JESSE:
Almost.
Don't let Tanaka get you alone.
If we're not alone,
he won't talk.
We'll be close, but he's proven
he's handy with a blade.
I'm not worried.
But you should be,
at least a little.
We're counting on
your fearlessness,
but a little fear's
a good thing.
Keeps you breathing.
Fine. I'll be careful.
You got this.
I'll cover the far path.
So, we're really
gonna do this here?
I think it's
our best chance.
Do you trust me?
Absolutely.
Doesn't mean I have to
like it, though.
All right, let's do this.
Send her in.
Wish us luck.
Next year, we should consider
expanding the exercise.
Commander Tanaka, right?
Shogo told me
so much about you.
You. What are you doing here?
Oh, good.
You know who I am.
That makes this so much easier.
We have a lot
to talk about.
Do you mind if I steal him
for a second?
We have some unfinished business
from Okinawa.
Excuse me. Be right back.
(quiet chatter)
Lucy, Kai,
(over comm):
give them room but stay close.
He'll never talk.
Hey, never underestimate
the neuro-divergent.
(quiet chatter, laughter)
How dare you threaten me.
Shogo told me
that you killed Yuki.
(scoffs)
Ridiculous.
This belongs to you.
Shogo gave it to me
for safekeeping.
Said he was scared of you.
Give me that.
Maybe, after you
wire me 50 grand.
Or maybe we
should go back
and continue the discussion
with your friends.
He might be going
for a weapon.
Gonna stab me
the way you did Yuki?
TANAKA:
I did no such thing.
ABBY:
What happened?
Did she reject you?
Tell you how much better
in bed Shogo was than you?
I mean,
he was so much younger.
Shut your mouth.
Never meant to kill her.
ABBY:
I know how hard it can be
to control
those violent impulses.
But Shogo was no impulse.
You executed him
to save yourself.
Yes.
That's it, we got him.
And if you don't give me
that medal,
I'll do the same to you.
Federal agents!
Hands in the air!
(panicked chatter)
What is this?
Commander, you're under arrest
for the murder of Shogo Oda.
And the murder of Yuki Sawa.
Wait! This is outrageous!
No!
Nice job.
I knew you could do it.
I did it for Yuki.
She was my friend.
I don't have many of those.
♪ ♪
Oshoko.
A purification ritual.
Ah, we could probably
all use one of those
every once in a while.
Thank you for allowing me
to work with you.
Next round of drinks are
in Okinawa.
You're paying this time.
(chuckles)
(insects trilling)
Heading out?
(chuckles) Trying.
There's always
one thing left to do, right?
Well, congratulations on the
most memorable farewell party
in Iron Cloud history.
Phone's been ringing
off the hook with JMSDF brass
who want to drop
the hammer on Tanaka.
(chuckles)
I'm glad it's your job
and not mine.
I liked working together
on this.
We make a good team.
Agreed.
Let's not make it a habit.
Actually, I thought maybe...
(keys jingle)
I mean, if you're free...
I was wondering if I could
buy you dinner.
♪ ♪
I can't.
Right. Of course.
Probably need to get home
to your kids.
I do, but that's not it.
And it's not
that I wouldn't like to.
Then what is it?
I'm NCIS Hawai'i's
first female SAC.
You're Deputy Chief of Staff
at Pacific Fleet.
And that's a problem?
It is.
A lot of people think
I was given this job
only because I'm a woman.
Which isn't true.
It's not.
But the optics of it are...
challenging.
It's just dinner.
Is it?
But thank you.
It's nice to be asked.
♪ ♪
("Shambala"
by Three Dog Night playing)
♪ Wash away my troubles,
wash away my pain ♪
♪ With the rain in Shambala ♪
♪ Wash away my sorrow,
wash away my shame ♪
♪ With the rain in Shambala ♪
Come on, Luce,
everybody knows this one.
I told you all
a million times, no.
♪ Yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah, yeah ♪
Here we go, liquid courage.
What is it?
It's, uh, shochu and oolong tea.
It's a Japanese cure
for karaoke nerves.
(chanting):
Lucy! Lucy! Lucy! Lucy!
You all know this is
my worst nightmare!
What, says the woman
who's game for everything?
Come on.
♪ Yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah, yeah ♪
Oh! I hate you all!
♪ In the halls of Shambala? ♪
♪ How does your light shine ♪
I hate you all!
(off-key):
♪ How does your light shine ♪
♪ In the halls of Shambala? ♪
I did tell her that karaoke
wasn't about being good.
♪ Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah ♪
♪ Shambala ♪
♪ How does your light shine ♪
♪ In the halls of Shambala? ♪
Captioning sponsored by
CBS
And FORD.
We go further, so you can.
Captioned by
Media Access Group at WGBH
access.wgbh.org